every time you talk on the internet
whether you make a video or write an
essay you're leaving behind a sort of
artifact for someone somewhere in the
world this will be the first time
they've heard my voice this will be in a
sense the first time they've met me the
first time they've heard my perspective
on the world and on the other hand some
video are recorded two years ago or some
essay I wrote ten years ago somebody
else could today encounter that for the
first time and that's the first they've
ever heard of me that's the first
they've met me the first time they've
considered my perspective on the world
and these artifacts they stay in
circulation
they never disappear this video is
addressed to what the relationship was
and what the relationship is between
myself and Charles Marlow someone who's
currently notorious as a figure in the
digital vegan demi-monde in the internet
subculture of people who aspire to be
vegan activists people who are vegan
advocates people hope to see some kind
of positive change connected to veganism
animal rights ecology ethics there was a
time when the vegan cheetah and I were
friends and there were still videos up
that referred to us as friends there are
other videos that refer to us as if
we're bitter enemies and some of you may
not know this but there are actually
videos and podcasts still on the
Internet today complaining that cheetahs
channel is nothing but a pale imitation
of mine that his material was derivative
that he was my puppet that his videos
were so similar to mine that he was
stealing ideas from me to such an extent
that he's criticized for that
and it seems unbelievable today because
today the content on his channel is so
different from mine people can't believe
that we ever were friends and people
don't know what the connection between
us was in the past tense in just the
past couple of days I had people asking
me about that it might be convenient for
me to presume or pretend that I can just
let the connection between Charles and I
slip into obscurity
but the reality of how the internet
works means that will probably never
happen and instead there will be a
miasma of misinformation there will
always be some videos saying that we're
friends some saying that were enemies
and none really clarifying what the
connection between us was or how it was
possible that for a time he seemed to
imitate me or agree with me or resemble
me so closely and then so soon it became
impossible to see that we ever had
anything in common
Charles Marlow was deeply impressed by
and inspired by some videos I made on my
channel a long time ago that I presumed
he'd never see one video in particular
struck him in which I was making a
broader point about the type of
personality that pursues Fame on YouTube
the type of personality that tends to
become a notorious leading figure in
veganism as it exists on the Internet
today and I mentioned Sheeta pretty
briefly there but I said something like
there's this new guy
the vegan cheetah he's rising in
popularity and he may become the next
Frehley or the next turian writer
insightful video for its time he may
become another one of these major
leaders but we can see some of the same
patterns we can see some of the same
problems with him and his personality
and I pointed out in that video that
while he had some of the same
characteristics of stand-up comedians or
other public figures that rise to
prominence that pursue Fame
that feel a need for the adoration of
the crowd same combination of
vulnerability and somewhat bombastic
over-the-top behavior I pointed out at
the same time he would never be able to
stand for election he would never be
able to run for mayor in a small town
and running for mayor in a small town
doesn't require the job of PhD doesn't
require you have an advanced education
it doesn't even require that you've
accomplished anything great or
impressive someone who's just been an
honest shopkeeper who's just done an
honest job running the local vegetable
store the local grocery store can stand
from air in a small town very often
figures like that pillars of the
community end up getting elected to
local government to become mayors in the
United States and that one in particular
really struck a chord with him and he
resolved at that time to turn his life
around although in many ways he already
had turned his life around he resolved
to buckle down and work harder go back
to school and rolled in college and he
thanked me many many times when he first
got in touched me which was a few months
later he thanked me profusely for the
way of which I had influenced his life
that I had inspired him not just in that
video he went on to watch every single
video on my channel he was deeply
impressed by the political perspective I
brought to it he was deeply impressed by
the type of aspiration both for a better
future for Humanity and for a better
future for us individually as vegans and
he decided that he had to remake himself
into an educated professional who could
represent veganism well who represent
himself well who could have the type of
respectability
he'd been lacking his whole life as
someone who'd done odd jobs as someone
who'd been a waiter as someone who'd
been a drug addict as someone who'd been
a convict so partly he was responding to
a message that was in my videos and
partly I think it's safe to say my
videos just happened to
trigger a set of insecurities a set of
dissatisfaction he had with the life
he'd been living and he took that and
channeled it into an aspiration to
really become a better person partly
through education partly through desire
to have a meaningful career in
journalism and I got to see some good
things come out of that in a pretty
short time you know even that one
example I gave of him giving a monologue
for several hours talking about the
differences between real conditions on
small farms and the propaganda image
that vegans display basically tending to
work with the worst case scenarios on
certain types of factory farms
slaughterhouses etc his whole approach
to that really was journalistic even
though he was a vegan even though he was
convenient for him to believe that
propaganda he was doing original
research and bringing an original
perspective and asking tough questions
and at that time he was communicating
with other people other he gets reversed
in those same questions I'm picking up
on their research at that time was easy
to see a lot of good in a man it was
easy to see hope for the future
and it was easy to see what he was doing
is being on an upward trajectory
it's easy to forget it's easy to forget
why so many of us had homes for the guy
and more encouraging of the guy it's
easy to forget why so many of us made a
video welcoming him back and encouraging
him when he got out of rehab for his
drug addiction why so many of us
collaborated to make a video encouraging
him when his channel was briefly taken
down was briefly blocked on YouTube some
months later it was reinstated so many
of us just wanted him to succeed and I'm
sure that's because each of us has some
moment like that that stays with us
whether or not you know for me it was
that particular day that lecture that he
gave that carried on while I wouldn't
did my laundry and came back for those
of us who saw him during that period
when he was really positively motivated
I'm sure each of us has different
memories of him doing something sincere
and positive trying to contribute to
meaningful discussions that were going
on within veganism at the time before he
got into a downward spiral that from our
perspective is never gonna end so yeah
there is a connection between Cheeta and
myself I remember him writing to me and
not just thanking me for the profound
effect that had on his life but him
questioning whether or not there was
some spiritual meaning to this whether
or not this was the design of the
universe that was before his mother had
died when he had a lot more that kind of
spiritual talk on his channel I can
remember him writing to me saying this
must all mean something this must be in
the Stars you know this must reflect
some kind of great design that he had
managed to get in touch with me and that
I had managed to make these videos that
sparked him to take on this new
direction that inspired him
to try to become a better person to
pursue a career as journalists to turn
his life around at a time when from one
perspective he already had turned his
life around he'd already gone from being
a drug addict to being a bodybuilder
from a meat-eater to a vegan but when he
met me on the internet he took on a
different set of horizons both in terms
of professional accomplishment in terms
of educational accomplishment and in
terms of a more ambitious political view
of what veganism could be in his life in
his community that activism was
something much more than coming on the
internet and selling a diet book or
glamorizing a lifestyle or making call
out videos or comedy videos the pureed
he had when he was so inspired by the
material on my channel and the period
somewhat longer period when he and I
were friends that was the connection
between us and where it stands today you
can watch my more recent video my final
judgement the vegan cheetah he's someone
I never want to speak to again